---
title: "Testing with Split Fixture"
source_url: https://docs.trimblecloud.com/processing-framework/content/how-to-guides/engine-development/local-testing/
fetched_at: 2026-03-20T19:37:21.796987+00:00
---

# Testing with Split Fixture

The `splitfixture` tool simplifies testing an Engine container on a developer's local workstation. Splitfixture
generates the same [Task Request JSON](../interface/#task-json) file and directory structure that is presented by the
Processing Framework in the deployed service. You can test in two ways - outside a container for local, iterative
development and inside a container context.

*NOTE: If testing a container, using the Python package will be problematic. Be sure to use the `splitfixture`
container!*

### Testing outside a Container

The developer may prefer to initially debug an Engine by running it directly on their workstation rather than in a
container. To support this scenario, install the `splitfixture` Python package directly on the workstation OS.
Installation instructions found [here](../basics/#cli-utility).

The command `splitfixture --help` displays the help:

```
Usage: splitfixture [OPTIONS] OPDEF [INPARAMS]...

Arguments:
  OPDEF          Path to a json file defining the operation to test
                 [required]

  [INPARAMS]...  Zero or more Key=value pairs that specify values for the
                 operation's input parameters


Options:
  -p, --port-contents DIRECTORY   Directory that contains sub-directories that
                                  supply the contents of input ports

  -t, --task-scratch DIRECTORY    Directory in the taskScratch volume to write
                                  the request json and ports

  -f, --parameter-file FILE       A file containing key=value pairs, 1 per
                                  line. These supply input parameter values

  --help                          Show this message and exit.
```

The following command will generate a test fixture for executing the `compute_checksums` operation.

```
splitfixture "/integritychecker/operation_definitions/compute_checksum.json" -p "/integritychecker/test_fixtures/empty/source_ports" -t /taskscratch algorithm=md5
```

Where:

* `"/integritychecker/operation_definitions/compute_checksum.json"` is the path to the operation definition JSON file.
* `-p "/integritychecker/test_fixtures/empty/source_ports"` specifies the directory that contains input port contents.
  There should be a sub-directory with the same name as each input port defined by compute\_checksum.json. So, in this
  example, your input file's path would be `/integritychecker/test_fixtures/empty/source_ports/sources/testfile`
* `-t /taskscratch` Specifies a directory to create the task request JSON and port directories in. If the Engine was
  running in a container this path would point to the shared volume mounted on the container. If not, this directory
  must already exist.
* `algorithm=md5` specifies md5 as the value of the algorithm parameter.

The output of this command will be a small JSON object that specifies the `PF_TASK_JSON_PATH` environment variable that
must be set so the Engine can locate the task request JSON generated by splitfixture.

```
{"PF_TASK_JSON_PATH": "/taskscratch/request_a47ba2ec-06d4-11ec-b386-0242ac110002.json", "execution-id": "a47ba2ec-06d4-11ec-b386-0242ac110002"}
```

Running the test fixture is initiated with the command.

```
export PF_TASK_JSON_PATH=/taskscratch/request_a47ba2ec-06d4-11ec-b386-0242ac110002.json
pythom -m integritychecker
```

If your Engine code expects environment variables beyond `PF_TASK_JSON_PATH` they should also be set at this step before
running the Engine code.

### Running Tests on the Engine Container

To build a test fixture that can be used by a containerized Engine, `splitfixture` must also be run from a container.
Splitfixture is available as both Windows and Linux Docker images. Instructions for downloading are found
[here](../basics/#docker-image).

The version you use must match the OS type of your Split Engine container. They are differentiated by the image tags (ie
`windows-latest` and `linux-latest`). The Linux containers are currently based on Debian 11, and all Windows images are
based on a Windows version 1809 (10.0.17763).

The command to generate a test fixture for the `compute_checksum` Operation using the `splitfixture-linux` image is:

```
# Bash (Linux, Mac, Windows WSL)
docker run --rm -t \
    --volume lintask:/taskscratch \
    --volume "/mnt/c/path/to/engine-integritychecker/operation_definitions":/opdef \
    --volume "/mnt/c/path/to/scratch_directory/source_ports":/inp \
    trimble/pf-splitfixture:linux-latest \
    /opdef/compute_checksum.json \
    algorithm=sha256

# Windows Powershell
docker run --rm -t `
    --volume lintask:/taskscratch `
    --volume C:\Users\path\to\engine-integritychecker\operation_definitions:/opdef `
    --volume C:\Users\path\to\scratch_directory\source_ports:/inp `
    trimble/pf-splitfixture:linux-latest `
    /opdef/compute_checksum.json `
    algorithm=sha256
```

Where:

* `--volume lintask:/taskscratch` mounts the lintask volume at /taskscratch. The /taskscratch mount point is used as the
  shared volume where the task request JSON and port directory structure is created. In this case lintask is a docker
  volume previously created with the command `docker volume create lintask`. Any legal volume name is acceptable, it
  doesn't have to be named lintask.
* `--volume "/mnt/c/path/to/engine-integritychecker/operation_definitions":/opdef` mounts a directory containing
  operation definition JSON. The later `/opdef/compute_checksum.json` argument specifies the full path to the operation
  definition in the mounted volume.
* `--volume "/mnt/c/path/to/scratch_directory/source_ports":/inp` mounts a directory
  containing containing input port contents. There should be a sub-directory with the same name as each input port
  defined by compute\_checksum.json. The directory must be mounted on `/inp` unless a `-p` option is supplied to specify
  a different mount point.
* `trimble/pf-splitfixture:linux-latest` is the docker image to run.
* `/opdef/compute_checksum.json` specifies the path to the operation definition JSON file. Note that this path is
  through the /opdef mount point.
* `algorithm=sha256` specifies md5 as the value of the algorithm parameter.

The output of this command will be a small JSON object that specifies the `PF_TASK_JSON_PATH` environment variable that
must be set in the Engine container to tell the Engine where the request JSON file is located.

```
{"PF_TASK_JSON_PATH": "/taskscratch/request_33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002.json", "execution-id": "33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002"}
```

Running the container test fixture is initiated with the command.

```
docker run -it --rm --volume lintask:/taskscratch --env PF_TASK_JSON_PATH=/taskscratch/request_33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002.json int-engine/integritychecker:latest
```

Where:

* `--volume lintask:/taskscratch` mounts the shared scratch volume. This must be the same volume and mount point used on
  when generating the test fixture.
* `--env PF_TASK_JSON_PATH=/taskscratch/request_33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002.json` sets the `PF_TASK_JSON_PATH`
  environment variable with the path to the task request JSON file. Note that this path to this file is on the shared
  /taskscratch volume.
* `int-engine/integritychecker:latest` is the Docker image to execute.

#### Custom Environment Variables

If your executable or `tdsplitengine` implementation required environment variables as discussed
[here](../supplemental/using-tdsplitengine/#custom-environment-variables-or-secrets), they will need to be
provided in this `docker run` command. They can be added in the same way `PF_TASK_JSON_PATH` was defined above.

#### Accessing test output data

After a test, the volume will have a directory structure similar to:

```
lintask/
│   33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002.log
│   request_33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002.json
│   result_33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002.json
│   secondary_logs33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002/
└───33c1a9e6-06d6-11ec-8e65-0242ac110002/
    │   inputs/
    │   outputs/
```

The shared scratch volume `lintask` is a docker volume, so it is not easily accessible from your local machine.
There are a few methods to retrieve and inspect the output data.

##### Export Script

Run a container with the docker volume and a local volume mounted and copy the docker volume contents to the local volume.

Example bash script

```
docker run --rm -it \
    --volume lintask:/taskscratch \
    --volume /home/user/output_data:/tmpdata \
    python:3.8-slim-buster \
    bash -c 'cp -a /taskscratch/. /tmpdata/'
```

Where:

* `--volume lintask:/taskscratch` mounts the shared scratch volume. It must be the same volume used in your test.
* `--volume /home/user/output_data:/tmpdata` mounts your local directory `/home/user/output_data`.
* `python:3.8-slim-buster` is the image being launched.
  This can be modified to other local linux containers if needed.

Example powershell script

```
docker run --rm -it `
    --volume lintask:C:\taskscratch `
    --volume C:\output_data:C:\tmpdata `
    python:3.8-windowsservercore-1809 `
    powershell.exe -command Copy-Item -Path C:\Taskscratch\* -Destination C:\tmpdata -Recurse
```

Where:

* `--volume lintask:C:\taskscratch` mounts the shared scratch volume. It must be the same volume used in your test.
* `--volume C:\output_data:C\tmpdata` mounts your local directory `C:\output_data`. This directory must already exist.
* `python:3.8-windowsservercore-1809` is the image being launched.
  This can be modified to other local windows containers if needed.

##### Default file paths

Docker generally saves its volume data in a default location.
\* Linux: `/var/lib/docker/volumes/<volume-name>/_data`
\* Windows: `C:\ProgramData\Docker\volumes\<volme-name>\_data\`
However, access to these directories may be restricted to your user account.
